(upbeat music)
Next up we have our instance methods,
so again, these are methods that live on each array,
and the first one is display all bun types,
with or using join.
So, what is join?
Let's take a look at it.
We've got our buns, and if we were to
call that join against it,
what it does is it turns the array
into a string joining each item with a comma.
Now join will take an argument,
and that is what you want to join or not.
So if you were to console.log, buns.join,
then we could just grab it with or, then you'll see
egg or wonder or brioche,
so that's how join works.
Next is we have a string
hot dogs, hamburger, sausages, corn,
and they are delimited by a comma.
Pretty common thing that you will see.
Use split to turn it into a,
I'll just say into an array,
not into a string.
So let's do it.
Const food.
So, let's go ahead and say, const foodString,
is equal to that.
Now if you want to turn this into an array,
it's actually not an array method,
it's a string method.
You take a look at our foodString here,
we can just console log foodString.split.
We wanna split it based on what character,
the comma.
Now it will get rid of those commas for us,
which is probably what we want.
And then we go, hot dogs, hamburgers, sausages, corn.
So, split is a pretty common one that I will do.
You can also split things on nothing,
and that will just put every letter into
it's own.
That's very similar to spreading
that we did earlier, and just one like,
little gotcha about split, is that you can think of like,
things like wes bos, and if I were to call split,
it works great.
However, if you have emojis in there,
like a family,
like that,
and you split it.
The, this emoji is actually made up of
several other emojis.
It is made up of the,
I think in this case, the man, the woman,
and the child emoji and what is referred to
as a zero width joiner.
So, that will come in,
if you ever try to split something with an emoji in it,
just something to, there's libraries out there
that'll help you get through that
if you do run into that emoji trouble.
Next, take the last item off toppings with pop.
So we haven't learned what pop does just yet,
but if we take a look at our toppings array,
and we call .pop on it.
What it will do is it will return to us
the last item in the array,
and then if we take a look at toppings,
now you'll see that
it now only has 10 items,
and cheese has been removed.
So it's kind of a handy little one
if you just want to like grab one off
the end of the array and then work with it,
and it will just take it out.
Now you tell me, is that an immutable or a mutable method?
It's a mutable method because it mutates the original array,
it takes it off of the array.
So we, let's go ahead and do that, and store it.
So const.lastItem is equal to toppings.pop.
Console.log(lastItem), cheese.
And put it back with push.
So toppings.push(lastItem).
Let's see what we get, so const t2,
let's see what we get with t2.
We get 11, huh, well what does 11 mean?
Well, when you push an item into an array,
it will return to you the new length of the array
in case you need it.
You don't have to put in a variable if you don't need it,
and in our case we don't care about it,
and we could just console.log(toppings),
and make sure that cheese has been put back.
It has.
Take the first item off toppings with shift,
so kind of like the same thing.
Const firstItem is equal to toppings.shift,
console.log(firstItem), we get mushrooms,
put it back with unshift.
We just take this push,
and change this to unshift,
and replace this lastItem with firstItem.
Do the last four, but immutable
with spreads and new variables.
Okay, we can do that, we know how to do that.
So take the last item off toppings with pop.
How do you take the last item off
without mutating the original one?
So we'll just say const newToppings is equal to,
we'll take the toppings.slice,
we'll start at zero, and we'll go for 10,
but that's kind of cheating, hard-coding it,
so we can say toppings.length minus one?
Or minus two, let's see.
Console.log(newToppings), let's see what we got here.
There we go, cheese is now off, that's what we want.
And then the next one was put it back,
so we can just do this:
let newToppings, and then we'll just say
newtoppings is equal to newToppings,
we'll create a new array, spread it back in,
and then put the last item back on.
So you could reference that
by saying toppings.length minus one.
'Cause we didn't actually, we took it out,
but we didn't store it anywhere,
so if need to reference it, we just need to reference it
from the original toppings array.
So what this does, is it spreads every thing
from newToppings array into the array,
and it adds on that last item there,
and what I'm doing here is I've created a let variable,
and I'm just overwriting it.
I could have left this as a const,
if that were the case, I would have had
to const.newtoppings2, right?
And I would have had to create another variable,
so none of these are best or bad practices,
they're just different ways to go about it,
and that should do it for us.
Oh, I think we're missing a square bracket there,
because that square bracket is for referencing
the index, and this one is for creating the array.
Now console.log(newtoppings),
we should see cheese at the end.
Good.
Then we wanted to add it to the front.
So you want to do exactly the same thing as this,
I won't show you how to do it,
but you do the exact same thing as this,
except you start at one and go for the length,
and then when you add it back in, you put it first,
and you spread after that.
Next, make a copy of the toppings array with .slice.
So how do you make a copy of an array?
Well there's a couple of ways that you could do it,
you could use slice, so const toppingsCopy
is equal to toppings.slice, start for zero,
I think, do we need the second argument?
Let's look it up!
Slice.
Going to the sidebar here, click over to slice.
Method returns a shallow copy of the portion of the array
and the new object from beginning to end
end not included.
So we go down to here, the end is optional, zero based,
slice extracts up to, but not including end.
If end is omitted, slice extracts through the end
of the sequence, okay, so we don't need it.
Just slice zero,
and console.log (toppingsCopy).
Looks good!
The way we can tell if that is a copy,
is if we were to change the original toppings,
so toppings, square brackets, zero, equals Mushy Boi,
and we were to console.log both the toppings
and the toppingsCopy.
The toppings says Mushy Boi
but the copy that made is only Mushrooms.
So you see that this made a true copy.
Second one is make a copy of the toppings array
with a spread, so const toppingsCopy2
is equal to, just make a new array, and ...toppings.
I kind of like that, I like using spreads a lot,
it's kind of weird at first, because of the ...,
maybe the syntax is a little bit funky to you,
but I think once you understand
like what's actually going on there, and how spreads work
then you're in good shape.
Take out items three to five of your new toppings array.
Okay, so let's say, toppingsCopy.splice,
because that is destructive, it is mutable,
we want to go three to five, and console.log(toppingsCopy).
Mushrooms, tomatoes, eggs,
we've got three to five being spliced out.
Find the index of avocado with indexof.
So previously, we had looked for an item with just find,
but if they are simply just strings, or numbers,
or references to an object, if you know exactly
what you're looking for, indexof is going to do
what you want to do.
So const index is equal to, let's call it avoIndex,
toppings.indexOf('Avocado').
Console.log(avoIndex).
Five, okay it tells me it's the fifth one in there.
One kind of thing about indexOf that you should know
is that it works with any types,
so if I've got a const people is equal to, square brackets,
and I have objects here, maybe if I do const wes is equal to
right here, name is wes, and then I hard code
one in here as well, so name is Scott,
and then I just put wes in the array as well.
Let's see what we got here.
We've got people, there's two people in there.
Now if I were to console.log(people.indexOf),
and I were to say wes,
it tells me wes is at one,
because it is giving reference to that object.
Now if I were to say people.indexOf,
and we were to pass it an object where the name
is equal to Scott, so exactly as I typed it here,
it tells you negative one, and negative one
is when it didn't find anything, and the reason
it doesn't give you zero
is because zero would be the first thing.
So negative one means it didn't find anything.
So why did it work when I pass it an object,
but it doesn't work when I pass it an object
that is exactly the same, and that
is because even though these objects
may look exactly the same,
they are not the exact same thing,
so if I were to say wes is equal to my object of wes,
we get, oh I have to put that in, a variable,
so const wes2, so wes2 is the same thing as wes,
but they are not equal to each other, false.
Why?
Because objects don't do a deep check for all the properties
to line up, they just check if the reference,
if it is actually the same object.
So in the case of this, indexOf(wes) checks for
if this object is the exact same object in here,
whereas when I just checked it for an object
that looked exactly the same, it gave me false,
so that's the whole reference versus value thing again.
It's just to make sure that you know that,
if that's what you're looking for,
someone with the name of Scott,
then you have to use find with a callback.
So I'm going to remove that just because it's a bit further.
We also have lastIndexOf if you want to find
the last instance.
IndexOf will find you the first instance of it.
Check if hot sauce is in the topping with includes.
So includes is pretty cool, you just take an array,
and one, two, three, four, and you can call includes on it,
you can check if it includes a number,
and it will tell you if that number, or if that string,
or if that reference to an object is in the array.
So we can simply go right here,
const isInToppings is equal to
toppings.includes,
we want to check if it has hot sauce.
And by the way, includes is not case sensitive,
so if you were checking for all different versions
of the case, what you would want to do
is first lowercase the entire array,
and we'll look at how to do that with map
in the next couple videos.
So console.log(isInToppings), it should give us false.
There, it does, and then add it if it is not.
So if, bang (!), isInToppings,
so if it is not in the toppings,
then toppings.push('Hot Sauce').
And then we'll console.log(toppings),
make sure we have hot sauce now added to the end.
Beautiful, we do!
And then flip around toppings with a reverse.
So we know that there's two ways to reverse,
we can just call toppings.reverse,
and that is a mutatable method,
meaning it will reverse the toppings array for us.
So you see here, Mushy Boi is first,
but then after we switch it around, Mushy Boi is last.
And then what's the other way?
If you want to make an immutable version of it,
if you don't want to actually reverse
the original toppings array, we can create a new array,
which is const toppingsReversed,
we can take a copy of it with our spread,
and then just call reverse on that.
And that will make sure, just watch this,
if I console.log(toppings),
comment out this original reverse,
the toppings are still in the right order,
but our toppingsReversed should be backwards.
It is!
So hopefully that whole concept of immutable and mutable
is starting to set in.
So those are all the methods
that I think are going to be helpful.
There's a couple other ones here and there,
you can look at the whole list,
but almost all of these
are going to be callback methods,
or filtering methods.
So let's talk about callback methods in the next video.